---
source_url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00965"
arxiv_id: "2310.00965"
type: paper
title: "Title: Node Perturbation Can Effectively Train Multi-Layer Neural Networks"
paper_authors: "Authors:Sander Dalm, Marcel van Gerven, Nasir Ahmad"
captured_at: 2026-05-01T18:36:49.775156+00:00
contributor: "unknown"
---

# Title: Node Perturbation Can Effectively Train Multi-Layer Neural Networks

**Authors:** Authors:Sander Dalm, Marcel van Gerven, Nasir Ahmad
**arXiv:** 2310.00965

## Abstract

Abstract:Backpropagation (BP) remains the dominant and most successful method for training parameters of deep neural network models. However, BP relies on two computationally distinct phases, does not provide a satisfactory explanation of biological learning, and can be challenging to apply for training of networks with discontinuities or noisy node dynamics. By comparison, node perturbation (NP), also known as activity-perturbed forward gradients, proposes learning by the injection of noise into network activations, and subsequent measurement of the induced loss change. NP relies on two forward (inference) passes, does not make use of network derivatives, and has been proposed as a model for learning in biological systems. However, standard NP is highly data inefficient and can be unstable due to its unguided noise-based search process. In this work, we develop a modern perspective on NP by relating it to the directional derivative and incorporating input decorrelation. We find that a closer alignment with directional derivatives together with input decorrelation at every layer theoretically and practically enhances performance of NP learning with large improvements in parameter convergence and much higher performance on the test data, approaching that of BP. Furthermore, our novel formulation allows for application to noisy systems in which the noise process itself is inaccessible, which is of particular interest for on-chip learning in neuromorphic systems.

Source: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00965
